README.rst, before:

Chaussette
==========

Chaussette is a WSGI server. The particularity of Chaussette is that
it can either bind a socket on a port like any other server does or
run against already opened sockets.

That makes Chaussette the best companion to run a WSGI or Django_ stack
under a process and socket manager, such as Circus_.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build Status
   :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette/

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/circus-tent/chaussette/badge.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Coverage Status on master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/circus-tent/chaussette?branch=master

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/badge/
   :target: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/?utm_source=badge


Quick Start
-----------

Running:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette

starts a very simple HTTP sample server on port 8080.  


Starting a WSGI application using chaussette is simply a matter of calling:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette examples.tornadoapp.wsgiapp

Chaussette can also serve tornado (non WSGI) application:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend tornado examples.tornadoapp.tornadoapp

The `simple_chat` example can be started as:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend socketio examples.simple_chat.chat.app

Note that the two previous examples are not backend agnostic, since
they are not (pure) WSGI applications.

A flask_ based pure WSGI application can be started with most
backends:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend gevent examples.flaskapp.app


In these examples, we start a standalone WSGI server, but the spirit of
chaussette is to be managed by Circus_, as described
https://chaussette.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#using-chaussette-in-circus

   
Links
-----

- The full documentation is located at: https://chaussette.readthedocs.io
- You can reach us for any feedback, bug report, or to contribute, at
  https://github.com/circus-tent/chaussette

.. _Circus: https://circus.readthedocs.io
.. _Django: https://docs.djangoproject.com
.. _flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/


Changelog
---------

1.3.0 - 2015-06-01
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fix gevent monkey patching (pull request #67).
- Add a "--graceful-timeout" option (for gevent-based backends).
- Fix the tornado backend so that it accepts tornado's WSGIApplication
  instaces.
- Update documentation.
- Improve example applications.

Commit message:

Added webserver arguments to creation of webserver.

README.rst, after:

Chaussette
==========

Chaussette is a WSGI server. The particularity of Chaussette is that
it can either bind a socket on a port like any other server does or
run against already opened sockets.

That makes Chaussette the best companion to run a WSGI or Django_ stack
under a process and socket manager, such as Circus_.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build Status
   :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette/

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/circus-tent/chaussette/badge.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Coverage Status on master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/circus-tent/chaussette?branch=master

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/badge/
   :target: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/?utm_source=badge


Quick Start
-----------

Running:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette

starts a very simple HTTP sample server on port 8080.


Starting a WSGI application using chaussette is simply a matter of calling:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette examples.tornadoapp.wsgiapp

Chaussette can also serve tornado (non WSGI) application:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend tornado examples.tornadoapp.tornadoapp

The `simple_chat` example can be started as:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend socketio examples.simple_chat.chat.app

Note that the two previous examples are not backend agnostic, since
they are not (pure) WSGI applications.

A flask_ based pure WSGI application can be started with most
backends:

.. code-block:: bash

   chaussette --backend gevent examples.flaskapp.app


In these examples, we start a standalone WSGI server, but the spirit of
chaussette is to be managed by Circus_, as described
https://chaussette.readthedocs.io/en/latest/#using-chaussette-in-circus


Links
-----

- The full documentation is located at: https://chaussette.readthedocs.io
- You can reach us for any feedback, bug report, or to contribute, at
  https://github.com/circus-tent/chaussette

.. _Circus: https://circus.readthedocs.io
.. _Django: https://docs.djangoproject.com
.. _flask: http://flask.pocoo.org/


Changelog
---------

Siyavula Fork - 2018-06-04
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Chaussette has NO support for actually transferring the arguments captured (under `arguments`) to
the webserver even though it appears exactly what it is intended for. This fork has been
specifically tested with Waitress but the change should work for other backends as well. This fork
assumes that those arguments (while still optional) are keyword arguments and then passes them in
when creating the server.


1.3.0 - 2015-06-01
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Fix gevent monkey patching (pull request #67).
- Add a "--graceful-timeout" option (for gevent-based backends).
- Fix the tornado backend so that it accepts tornado's WSGIApplication
  instaces.
- Update documentation.
- Improve example applications.
