docs/source/index.rst, before:

Chaussette WSGI Server
======================

.. image:: images/chaussette.png
   :align: right


**Chaussette** is a WSGI server you can use to run your Python WSGI
applications.

The particularity of **Chaussette** is that it can either bind a socket
on a port like any other server does **or** run against **already opened
sockets**.

That makes **Chaussette** the best companion to run a WSGI or Django
stack under a process and socket manager, such as
`Circus <http://circus.rtfd.org>`_ or `Supervisor <http://supervisord.org>`_.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build Status
   :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette/

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/circus-tent/chaussette/badge.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Coverage Status on master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/circus-tent/chaussette?branch=master

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/badge/
   :target: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/?utm_source=badge



Usage
=====

You can run a plain WSGI application, a Django application, or a Paste application.
To get all options, just run *chaussette --help*.


Running a plain WSGI application
--------------------------------

**Chaussette** provides a console script you can launch against a WSGI
application, like any WSGI server out there:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette mypackage.myapp
    Application is <function myapp at 0x104d97668>
    Serving on localhost:8080
    Using <class chaussette.backend._wsgiref.ChaussetteServer at 0x104e58d50> as a backend


Running a Django application
----------------------------

**Chaussette** allows you to run a Django project. You just need to provide the
Python import path of the WSGI application, commonly located in the Django
project's ``wsgi.py`` file. For further information about how the ``wsgi.py``
file should look like see the `Django documentation`_.

Here's an example:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette --backend gevent mysite.wsgi.application
    Application is <django.core.handlers.wsgi.WSGIHandler object at 0x10ec3f350>
    Serving on localhost:8080
    Using <class 'chaussette.backend._gevent.Server'> as a backend

.. _`Django documentation`: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.4/howto/deployment/wsgi/


Running a Python Paste application
----------------------------------

**Chaussette** will let you run a project based on a
`Python Paste <http://pythonpaste.org/>`_ configuration file.

You just need to use to provide the
path to the configuration file in the **application**, prefixed with **paste:**

Here's an example:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette paste:path/to/configuration.ini
    $ Application is <mozsvc.middlewares.CatchErrorMiddleware object at 0x10d4fdad0>
    $ Serving on localhost:8080
    $ Using <class chaussette.backend._wsgiref.ChaussetteServer at 0x10cc7e668> as a backend


Using Chaussette in Circus
==========================

The typical use case is to run Chaussette processes under a process
and socket manager.  Chaussette was developed to run under `Circus
<https://circus.readthedocs.io>`_, which takes care of binding the
socket and spawning Chaussette processes.

To run your WSGI application using Circus, define a *socket* section in your
configuration file, then add a Chaussette watcher.

Minimal example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [circus]
    endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5555
    pubsub_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5556
    stats_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5557

    [watcher:web]
    cmd = chaussette --fd $(circus.sockets.web) --backend meinheld server.app
    use_sockets = True
    numprocesses = 5

    [socket:web]
    host = 0.0.0.0
    port = 8000


When Circus runs, it binds a socket on the *8000* port and passes the file descriptor
value to the Chaussette process, by replacing *${socket:web}* by the file number value.


Using Chaussette in Supervisor
==============================

`Supervisor <http://supervisord.org>`_ includes a socket manager since
version 3.0a7, released in 2009.  It was originally developed to support
FastCGI processes and thus the configuration section is called
*fcgi-program*.  Despite the name, it is not tied to the FastCGI protocol.
Supervisor can bind the socket and then spawn Chaussette processes.

To run your WSGI application using Supervisor, define an *fcgi-program*
section in your configuration file.

Minimal example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [supervisord]
    logfile = /tmp/supervisord.log

    [inet_http_server]
    port = 127.0.0.1:9001

    [supervisorctl]
    serverurl = http://127.0.0.1:9001

    [rpcinterface:supervisor]
    supervisor.rpcinterface_factory = supervisor.rpcinterface:make_main_rpcinterface

    [fcgi-program:web]
    command = chaussette --fd 0 --backend meinheld server.app
    process_name = %(program_name)s_%(process_num)s
    numprocs = 5
    socket = tcp://0.0.0.0:8000


Notice the ``--fd 0`` argument to ``chaussette``.  Each *fcgi-program*
section defines its own socket and the file descriptor is always ``0``.
See the `Supervisor manual <http://supervisord.org/configuration.html#fcgi-program-x-section-settings>`_
for detailed information.

Supervisor will create the socket before spawning the first Chaussette child
process.  When the last child exits, Supervisor will close the socket.


Backends
========

Chaussette is just a bit of glue code on the top of existing WSGI servers,
and is organized around **back ends**.

By default Chaussette uses a pure Python implementation based on **wsgiref**,
but it also provides more efficient back ends. Most of them are for Python 2
only, but Chaussette can be used under Python 3 with a few of them - marked in the
list below:

- **gevent** -- based on Gevent's *pywsgi* server
- **fastgevent** -- based on Gevent's *wsgi* server -- faster but does not
  support streaming.
- **meinheld** -- based on Meinheld's fast C server
- **waitress** -- based on Pyramid's waitress pure Python web server (py3)
- **eventlet** -- based on Eventlet's wsgi server
- **geventwebsocket** -- Gevent's **pywsgi** server coupled with
  **geventwebsocket** handler.
- **geventws4py** -- Gevent's **pywsgi** server coupled with
  **ws4py** handler.
- **socketio** -- based on gevent-socketio, which is a custom
  Gevent server & handler that manages the socketio protocol.
- **bjoern** -- based on Bjoern.
- **tornado** -- based on Tornado's wsgi server.


You can select your backend by using the **--backend** option and providing
its name.

For some backends, you need to make sure the corresponding libraries
are installed:

- **gevent** and **fastgevent**: `pip install gevent`
- **meinheld** : `pip install meinheld`
- **waitress** : `pip install waitress`
- **eventlet** : `pip install eventlet`
- **geventwebsocket**: `pip install gevent-websocket`
- **geventws4py**: `pip install ws4py`
- **socketio**: `pip install gevent-socketio`
- **bjoern**: `pip install bjoern`
- **tornado**: `pip install tornado`


If you want to add your favorite WSGI Server as a backend to Chaussette,
or if you think you can make one of the backend Python 3 compatible,
send me an e-mail !

If you curious about how each on of those backends performs, you can read:

- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/06/28/wgsi-web-servers-bench/
- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/07/03/wsgi-web-servers-bench-part-2/


Rationale and Design
====================

Most WGSI servers out there provide advanced features to scale your web
applications, like multi-threading or multi-processing. Depending on the
project, the *process management* features, like respawning processes that
die, or adding new ones on the fly, are not always very advanced.

On the other hand, tools like Circus and Supervisor have more advanced
features to manage your processes, and are able to manage sockets as well.

The goal of *Chaussette* is to delegate process and socket management to
its parent process and just focus on serving requests.

Using a pre-fork model, the process manager binds a socket.  It then forks
Chaussette child processes that accept connections on that socket.

For more information about this design, read :

- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/06/12/shared-sockets-in-circus.
- https://circus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/for-ops/sockets/


Useful links
============

- Repository : https://github.com/circus-tent/chaussette
- Documentation : https://chaussette.readthedocs.io
- Continuous Integration: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette

Commit message:

New version & add notice in doc

docs/source/index.rst, after:

Chaussette WSGI Server
======================

.. image:: images/chaussette.png
   :align: right

**Chaussette-backport** is a fork of chaussette as chaussette is not working
properly with current waitress & more. See `https://github.com/circus-tent/chaussette/pull/89`

**Chaussette is a hard work, the idea of backporting the project is juste to be able to install
fixed version of the application. Feel free to contact us if you think we should remove this backport
from Pypi.

**Chaussette** is a WSGI server you can use to run your Python WSGI
applications.

The particularity of **Chaussette** is that it can either bind a socket
on a port like any other server does **or** run against **already opened
sockets**.

That makes **Chaussette** the best companion to run a WSGI or Django
stack under a process and socket manager, such as
`Circus <http://circus.rtfd.org>`_ or `Supervisor <http://supervisord.org>`_.

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Build Status
   :target: https://secure.travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette/

.. image:: https://coveralls.io/repos/circus-tent/chaussette/badge.svg?branch=master
   :alt: Coverage Status on master
   :target: https://coveralls.io/r/circus-tent/chaussette?branch=master

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/chaussette.svg
   :target: https://python.org/pypi/chaussette/

.. image:: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/badge/
   :target: http://allmychanges.com/p/python/chaussette/?utm_source=badge



Usage
=====

You can run a plain WSGI application, a Django application, or a Paste application.
To get all options, just run *chaussette --help*.


Running a plain WSGI application
--------------------------------

**Chaussette** provides a console script you can launch against a WSGI
application, like any WSGI server out there:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette mypackage.myapp
    Application is <function myapp at 0x104d97668>
    Serving on localhost:8080
    Using <class chaussette.backend._wsgiref.ChaussetteServer at 0x104e58d50> as a backend


Running a Django application
----------------------------

**Chaussette** allows you to run a Django project. You just need to provide the
Python import path of the WSGI application, commonly located in the Django
project's ``wsgi.py`` file. For further information about how the ``wsgi.py``
file should look like see the `Django documentation`_.

Here's an example:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette --backend gevent mysite.wsgi.application
    Application is <django.core.handlers.wsgi.WSGIHandler object at 0x10ec3f350>
    Serving on localhost:8080
    Using <class 'chaussette.backend._gevent.Server'> as a backend

.. _`Django documentation`: https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/1.4/howto/deployment/wsgi/


Running a Python Paste application
----------------------------------

**Chaussette** will let you run a project based on a
`Python Paste <http://pythonpaste.org/>`_ configuration file.

You just need to use to provide the
path to the configuration file in the **application**, prefixed with **paste:**

Here's an example:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ chaussette paste:path/to/configuration.ini
    $ Application is <mozsvc.middlewares.CatchErrorMiddleware object at 0x10d4fdad0>
    $ Serving on localhost:8080
    $ Using <class chaussette.backend._wsgiref.ChaussetteServer at 0x10cc7e668> as a backend


Using Chaussette in Circus
==========================

The typical use case is to run Chaussette processes under a process
and socket manager.  Chaussette was developed to run under `Circus
<https://circus.readthedocs.io>`_, which takes care of binding the
socket and spawning Chaussette processes.

To run your WSGI application using Circus, define a *socket* section in your
configuration file, then add a Chaussette watcher.

Minimal example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [circus]
    endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5555
    pubsub_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5556
    stats_endpoint = tcp://127.0.0.1:5557

    [watcher:web]
    cmd = chaussette --fd $(circus.sockets.web) --backend meinheld server.app
    use_sockets = True
    numprocesses = 5

    [socket:web]
    host = 0.0.0.0
    port = 8000


When Circus runs, it binds a socket on the *8000* port and passes the file descriptor
value to the Chaussette process, by replacing *${socket:web}* by the file number value.


Using Chaussette in Supervisor
==============================

`Supervisor <http://supervisord.org>`_ includes a socket manager since
version 3.0a7, released in 2009.  It was originally developed to support
FastCGI processes and thus the configuration section is called
*fcgi-program*.  Despite the name, it is not tied to the FastCGI protocol.
Supervisor can bind the socket and then spawn Chaussette processes.

To run your WSGI application using Supervisor, define an *fcgi-program*
section in your configuration file.

Minimal example:

.. code-block:: ini

    [supervisord]
    logfile = /tmp/supervisord.log

    [inet_http_server]
    port = 127.0.0.1:9001

    [supervisorctl]
    serverurl = http://127.0.0.1:9001

    [rpcinterface:supervisor]
    supervisor.rpcinterface_factory = supervisor.rpcinterface:make_main_rpcinterface

    [fcgi-program:web]
    command = chaussette --fd 0 --backend meinheld server.app
    process_name = %(program_name)s_%(process_num)s
    numprocs = 5
    socket = tcp://0.0.0.0:8000


Notice the ``--fd 0`` argument to ``chaussette``.  Each *fcgi-program*
section defines its own socket and the file descriptor is always ``0``.
See the `Supervisor manual <http://supervisord.org/configuration.html#fcgi-program-x-section-settings>`_
for detailed information.

Supervisor will create the socket before spawning the first Chaussette child
process.  When the last child exits, Supervisor will close the socket.


Backends
========

Chaussette is just a bit of glue code on the top of existing WSGI servers,
and is organized around **back ends**.

By default Chaussette uses a pure Python implementation based on **wsgiref**,
but it also provides more efficient back ends. Most of them are for Python 2
only, but Chaussette can be used under Python 3 with a few of them - marked in the
list below:

- **gevent** -- based on Gevent's *pywsgi* server
- **fastgevent** -- based on Gevent's *wsgi* server -- faster but does not
  support streaming.
- **meinheld** -- based on Meinheld's fast C server
- **waitress** -- based on Pyramid's waitress pure Python web server (py3)
- **eventlet** -- based on Eventlet's wsgi server
- **geventwebsocket** -- Gevent's **pywsgi** server coupled with
  **geventwebsocket** handler.
- **geventws4py** -- Gevent's **pywsgi** server coupled with
  **ws4py** handler.
- **socketio** -- based on gevent-socketio, which is a custom
  Gevent server & handler that manages the socketio protocol.
- **bjoern** -- based on Bjoern.
- **tornado** -- based on Tornado's wsgi server.


You can select your backend by using the **--backend** option and providing
its name.

For some backends, you need to make sure the corresponding libraries
are installed:

- **gevent** and **fastgevent**: `pip install gevent`
- **meinheld** : `pip install meinheld`
- **waitress** : `pip install waitress`
- **eventlet** : `pip install eventlet`
- **geventwebsocket**: `pip install gevent-websocket`
- **geventws4py**: `pip install ws4py`
- **socketio**: `pip install gevent-socketio`
- **bjoern**: `pip install bjoern`
- **tornado**: `pip install tornado`


If you want to add your favorite WSGI Server as a backend to Chaussette,
or if you think you can make one of the backend Python 3 compatible,
send me an e-mail !

If you curious about how each on of those backends performs, you can read:

- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/06/28/wgsi-web-servers-bench/
- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/07/03/wsgi-web-servers-bench-part-2/


Rationale and Design
====================

Most WGSI servers out there provide advanced features to scale your web
applications, like multi-threading or multi-processing. Depending on the
project, the *process management* features, like respawning processes that
die, or adding new ones on the fly, are not always very advanced.

On the other hand, tools like Circus and Supervisor have more advanced
features to manage your processes, and are able to manage sockets as well.

The goal of *Chaussette* is to delegate process and socket management to
its parent process and just focus on serving requests.

Using a pre-fork model, the process manager binds a socket.  It then forks
Chaussette child processes that accept connections on that socket.

For more information about this design, read :

- http://blog.ziade.org/2012/06/12/shared-sockets-in-circus.
- https://circus.readthedocs.io/en/latest/for-ops/sockets/


Useful links
============

- Repository : https://github.com/circus-tent/chaussette
- Documentation : https://chaussette.readthedocs.io
- Continuous Integration: https://travis-ci.org/circus-tent/chaussette
